So it's time for us to reach a
conclusion on personal identity.
The question. Very important to
formulation right is this.
If a person exists at one time
and something exists or another
time. Under what possible
circumstances? Is it the case
that the person is the thing?
That according to Olson, is the
question that we're trying to
answer. When we're thinking
about personal identity as
philosophers.
The first answer we examined was
a psychological continuity view.
According to which, the answer
is this. The person is the thing
under exactly those
circumstances in which the
person can, at the first time
remember an experience. The
second mentioned thing had at
the second time or vice versa.
The alternative view we've
considered is biological
continuity. The idea is
that the answer is this.
The first the person is the
thing under exactly those
circumstances in which the
person's biological Organism is
continuous. With the second
things biological Organism.
So those are two competing
answers. You can workout the
details in lots of different
ways. We've ignored the details.
We've tried to look at major
objections to each view.
What we've seen is, I think,
very striking. We've seen that.
Philosophers who face
objections. To these views,
make moves which seemed to
bring the whole debate to
kind of neat conclusion.
The neat conclusion I'm looking
for Is this proponents of
psychological continuity admit
that their views are not really
answers to the question about
personal identity at all.
They're not views about
identity, their views about.
What matters ethically or
practically for your survival?
So these are, strictly
speaking, not philosophical.
Or metaphysical issues at all.
There's something else, right?
Maybe predictions about how
people are thinking very bizarre
situations. On the other hand,
proponents of the biological
continuity view make a
complementary concession. They
say look, we write about the
metaphysics, but that has no
practical significance. They
just aren't any deeper difficult
questions here. What we've
discovered in effect is that.
Metaphysical features of your.
Personal identity.
Make no difference for your.
Moral responsibility or
other practical matters.
And this reminds me of the thing
that I started with. I started
with some words from the great
metaphysician David Lewis.
He says identity is utterly
simple and unproblematic.
Everything is identical to
itself. Nothing is ever
identical to anything but
itself. There's never any
problem about what makes
something identical to itself.
Nothing can ever fail to be, and
there's never any problem about
what makes two things identical.
Two things can't be identical.
I think what we've seen taking a
really long way around this.
Is that Luis is right.
My own conclusion about this is
that the issues about personal
identity. Are not difficult and
not different from issues about
identity in any other case,
numerical identity. On the
other hand, there are a bunch
of issues which are not
really metaphysical issues
about personal survival,
about ethics and moral
responsibility. But the
metaphysics doesn't have much
consequences for those, and
they don't have much
consequences for the
metaphysics.
Now that's my take on this
debate. I guess it's a take that
involves a certain amount of
skepticism of what the
philosophers. I've done here. I
think it's quite likely that you
will take on. This debate will
be quite different. You may be a
proponent of one or another view
here, perhaps a view that we
haven't considered, and that's a
good thing. I'm not suggesting
for a minute that I'm right. I
think it's very unlikely that
I'm right, but sometimes I found
it useful to offer students.
A. Statement of you. In order to
provoke them to think for
themselves. And that's what I
hope will happen in this case.
The case of personal identity.
Thank you very much.